This exploration requires you to examine and reflect on your identity and start to articulate what's at the core of who you are. You will explore your values, ethics, strengths and limitations, what has shaped these, and where you could do some beneficial learning to your growth.

Explain a situation where you have made an ethical decision. Discuss how you weighed up the values involved in that decision, the decision you made, and how you reflect on the decision now.

Ethical Decision Making Framework: https://www.playbytherules.net.au/-/media/images/edm.ashx?h=835&w=600&hash=C7AEC156292467FE39320DF5EE53C52A

A massive ethical decision I had to make in my life, was when my Mum and I, decided to sell our business.

(Background) - My Mum and I ran a successful clothing business in Havelock North, called The Hanger. We ran this business from the ground up for over 6 years. We started from very humble beginnings and grew our business slowly and steadily. What started from about 10k of stock, turned into about 250k worth of stock being carried in our small store. This didn't happen overnight, we put everything we had, financially, physically and mentally into this business. It was our baby. It was our life. 

Selling my business was not a decision that came easily, we actually tossed up the idea for a couple of years, before we actually put it on the market. 
We had to weigh up a lot of things, but one in particular being our identity. Who would we be after this, once the business was sold? What would we then do for work? How will we support ourselves? Why would we go from owning a business, to normal work? Everybody knows us as The Hanger Girls, what would they all think?
We had to weigh up all these questions and think carefully about what we were going to do next. This decision would not only affect myself and my mum, it also affects my family as a whole.

This whole idea to sell the business came up for a number of reasons, these are my top 5.

Number one probably being the stress. Running a business is A LOT. You have to wear most the hats in a small business so it becomes a massive task because you basically have to do everything. 
Two would be I was ready for a change. And I wanted to do this while I'm still young. I wanted to get out of retail and standing behind a counter.
My third reasoning was the public. Don't get me wrong, we had so many amazing, loyal customers that have become great friends. However, we found post covid, it was like people forgot how to be nice to others. Customers demanded so much out of us, it became physically and mentally draining. 
Fourth would be the economy. Again, Covid. People learn't how to shop online, get sales or deals on everything, and then get it delivered to their doorstep. Small businesses cannot compete with big chain stores. And, as everyday necessities became more expensive to buy, people has less disposable income. 
Fifth I wanted to have a SKILL. I think having a skill is the greatest thing. It opens up so many more opportunities to get into something you want to do. I figured if I could get a job where someone pays great money because of my skill, I'll be winning. Like how you get in a builder. Because you require their skill to do something you couldn't do yourself. 


Describe how your culture and the people around you have influenced your values and identity.

My family are a massive part of everything I do. Without family, I would be nothing. We are all so different in many ways, kinda like a mix bag of lollies. And even though there are so many different personalities and dynamics in my family, we all feel the same on one core thing; family over everything. 
Being one of 6 kids growing up shaped how I am today. We started out with nothing much. Dad used to work in an orchard and mum looked after us kids full time and did a bit of hairdressing at home when she could, just to get us by. As you could imagine, it would have been hard for my parents to keep their head above water. 
Fortunately, my Grandad was a builder. My parents took a leap and sold their house to buy a smaller home with a section that they could build on. This is the start of many house builds, 5 to be exact, and 3 renovations. 
We couldn't afford to rent while we were building at the start, so we lived at the camping ground in a caravan and awning for about a year. 5 of us kids were there at the time, my eldest sister had moved to London. 

Although our upbringing was tough. We still had a great time, and we still had each other. We were all very happy, and made the most out of bad situations. If it wasn't for my parents taking that leap of faith to literally build our future, we would still be living in a shitty old house in Mahora. 

This experience growing up has humbled me, especially when our business started doing really well. It has given me a lot of common sense from a very young age. We had to help our our parents a lot when we were kids, cooking and cleaning mainly.
It has made me appreciate things a lot more, I can see the time and effort someone puts into just a meal. But mainly it has helped me see the importance of family. We didn't all get along as kids, but through our experiences together over the years, has made us unbreakable. 



Identify your strengths and how they will support you during your learning journey.

My Top 5 Strengths according to Big 5  (https://psytests.org/bigfive/bfi2sen.html)

1. Gratitude
TRANSCENDENCE
Being aware of and thankful for the good things that happen; taking time to express thanks.

2. Appreciation of Beauty & Excellence 
TRANSCENDENCE
Noticing and appreciating beauty, excellence, and/or skilled performance in various domains of life, from nature to art to mathematics to science to everyday experience.

3. Social Intelligence
HUMANITY
Being aware of the motives/feelings of others and oneself; knowing what to do to fit into different social situations; knowing what makes other people tick.


4.Honesty
COURAGE
 Speaking the truth but more broadly presenting oneself in a genuine way and acting in a sincere way; being without pretense; taking responsibility for one's feelings and actions.
COURAGE

5. Creativity
WISDOM
Thinking of novel and productive ways to conceptualize and do things; includes artistic achievement but is not limited to it.


I think these strengths sum me up really well. 
Practicing gratitude will help me to keep calm and be less stressed.
Appreciation of beauty and excellence will help me make positive connections around me.
Social intelligence will play a huge role when working as a team. I am very good at reading people and situations.
Honesty not only to others but also myself. It will keep my conscience clear, even if I'm in the wrong.
Creativity will support me in finding what I really want to do in tech. It will help me to problem solve and connect with people. 



Evaluate your limitations in terms of your learning and career development. How might these affect your learning journey?









Share an example of when you were trying to work productively with others, but there was resistance or tension. Discuss strategies you tried at the time, how effective they were, and your reflections on what other strategies you would try now and why.

Reflection Questions for Git and Git Hub

- What's the difference between Git and GitHub?
Git is the actual version control software / application.
GitHub is where you can store all of your information, work colaboratively, like ‘The Cloud’.
You can push & pull commits from here. 
- Can you think of an analogy to describe them?
Git = application
GitHub = the cloud or use the ‘Hub’ part in GitHub to think of it as a hub of people who can work together, push / pull data etc 
- Do you think you would still remember the difference a week from now if you didn't revisit the material?
Yes because I will remember the analogy.
- Did you stick to the timebox suggestions? If not, why not? 
I think I probably took a little bit longer in the time box suggestions, just because I wanted to make sure my head was wrapped around the concept. I watched another couple of YouTube videos that I understood better. So probbaly only about 20min time difference on it. 

What is a Git workflow?
It's the way in which multiple developers can work on one project at the same time using branching. Once they are happy with their changes, they can the merge their work onto the same branch. 

What did you notice about your learning? What did you do when you were confused or blocked?
Is there anything you'd do differently if you were to repeat the learning exploration?
If I got stuck and to the point where I could not work the answer out on my own, I reached out to the Discord for tech help.

How would you describe stage and commit to your non-tech-savvy friend?
Staged means that you have made changes to a file that you are then going to take a snapshot of those changes made, then committing them, meaning you save these changes in your local database. 

What is main?
Main means that you are in the main or the root directory.
 
Why create a branch?
Because it allows multiple users to make changes on a project, without affecting the master. 

Do the concepts introduced feel intuitive or difficult to understand?
Once I get my head around the concepts and have a few tries at it, it defiantly starts making more sense. 
